---
layout: category-post
title:  "UX 101"
date:   2019-03-27
categories: resources
---
<i>The purpose of this document is to help a UX designer explain their role and process to a client (current or prospective) or a team. It’s intended for audiences that may still not understand the difference between UX design and UI design.<br>
  <br>
You’re welcome to use and change this document as you see fit, just don't be an asshole about it :)</i>

[<code>Download this page as an editable ODT doc</code>](/downloads/UX101.odt)
<hr>
<h4>Definitions:</h4>
  <u>UX design (User Experience design)</u> =  Function (how the product works)<br>
  <br>
  <u>UI design (User Interface design)</u> = Form (how the product looks)<br>
  <br>
  <u>UX Designer role</u><br>
    - Identifies users and usability needs, proposes practical design solutions for intuitive, pleasant product interaction (navigation, taxonomy, devices, task flows, feel)<br>
    - Creates the brief and requirements for the UI Designer to build<br>
    <br>
  <u>UI Designer role</u><br>
    - Creates the actual visual design and builds the User Interface<br>

<h2>THE UX PROCESS</h2> ...is methodical, collaborative and iterative.

1. <h4>Discover & Understand:</h4> Ask questions and analyse data until you understand the usability needs and the business goals.<br>
  ⁃ What kinds of user types are there?<br>
  ⁃ Who are the users? (demographics)<br>
  ⁃ What are the problems we need to solve?<br>
  ⁃ How can we add value?<br>
  ⁃ What are the constraints?<br>
<br>
2. <h4>Strategy & Scope:</h4> Generate and document user needs and business goals, project requirements, resources and specifications.<br>
  ⁃ What are we creating?<br>
  ⁃ What can we realistically do?<br>
  ⁃ When will we know we’re done with this iteration?<br>
  ⁃ How will we measure success?<br>
<br>
3. <h4>Structure:</h4> Collaboratively create and validate information architecture, site map, navigation structure, taxonomies and task flows.<br>
  ⁃ What are things called?<br>
  ⁃ How do things need to be grouped?<br>
  ⁃ What does each user type need to see on each screen?<br>
<br>
4. <h4>Wireframe:</h4> Iteratively create and validate the interface layout (keep the drafts content-based: no colours/fonts/images). If you have multiple user groups, create these with each group, then socialise with the other groups. Have the users present and explain to each other.<br>
<br>
5. <h4>Test & Refine:</h4> Test and socialise with the correct user groups and refine until functionality is validated.<br>
<br>
6. <h4>UI:</h4> Generate the brief for UI and visual design look and feel. Begin design iterations.<br>
  ⁃ No design by committee. NO. DESIGN. BY. COMMITTEE.<br>
  ⁃ Be prepared to explain and defend your designs, but be open to reasoned feedback. Remain convince-able.<br>
  ⁃ Egos and opinions can be mitigated by A/B testing, user feedback and data.<br>
  ⁃ Bad UI can ruin good UX<br>
<br>
7. <h4>Test & Refine:</h4> Test with the correct user groups and refine until ready to release.<br>
<br>
8. <h4>Monitor:</h4> Watch usage data and feedback channels<br>
<br>
9. <h4>Iterate:</h4> Commit to continuous improvement. Collect data and feedback, adjust and cycle again.<br>

<br>
<hr>
You can find me on [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/willjsherman)

You can download my [CV](../Will_Sherman_resume.pdf)

You can send me an [email](mailto:Will@willjsherman.com)
