---
layout: category-post
title:  "My story"
date:   2021-01-01 13:52:21 +1000
categories: blog
---

<h2>A bit more about me</h2>

Originally from Austin, Texas, I have also lived in Ireland and England and now permanently reside in Australia. I am a father of three, and I count parenthood as a valid workplace skillset and absolutely relevant career experience!

I love stories. I am a collector and a teller of stories. Stories create understanding, and an Experience Designer must be able to understand their users and their stories in order to solve problems and create value. 

In addition to my deep collection of stories, my strong knowledge of UX and UI principles, techniques and tools make me a versatile team member. 

Eminently pragmatic, my wide range of product and industry experience has taught me that sometimes an educated decision is the right choice when time or data is limited. 

A data-driven, methodical designer with a love for human centred design, I love working collaboratively with my team, stakeholders and users. 

I have been working fully remote for nearly three years now, I pride myself on being able to adapt to a myriad of working styles to get things done. 

Professionally, I find that empathy and humility are my most valuable qualities, and I am known as a specialist in stakeholder management. I seek to really hear and understand the stories of all parties involved before diving into the solution.

Personally, I am a colourful character who loves cooking, gardening and music, and I celebrate the diversity of human existence and all the stories it holds. 

I am at my very best when working in a positive, open team culture. 

You can read more specific information about my career history on [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/willjsherman)

Thanks for reading, I am always humbled and honoured when someone spends their time to learn more about me!

~Will
<hr>
You can find me on [LinkedIn](http://www.linkedin.com/in/willjsherman)

You can download my [CV](../Will_Sherman_resume.pdf)

You can send me an [email](mailto:Will@willjsherman.com)